[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Finally
this is the last example.
So get this one.
Okay, so this one is just like the others.
I think.
Let's say we want to get the Href,
which is a secret io action that's going
to getHref, and then get the protocol.
We'll just split it and
grab the first part of that.
So I think just like every other one,
we're just going to map get protocol and
getHref.
I work from five, five worked.
Cool.
Just another example of the same thing.
So, is this getting boring or
is this still interesting?
Because it's still interesting,
I want to talk about it [LAUGH].
I feel like it should be
boring at this point, though.
We've got this IO which is a map over it,
done.
>> Speaker 2: Mims W was wondering
just for clarification sake,
that the implementation of left
out map seems to not do anything.
Is that right?
Whatever function you put on it
left to just-
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Just ignore
it.
>> Speaker 2: Brings itself back out
basically-.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: That's why this error
message bubbles up through the rest
of your app and shows up at the end.
It says I stopped running
your app because of this
[LAUGH].
>> Brian Lonsdorf: In exercise six,
this one's a little bit trickier.
Let's just quickly run through it.
Ha ha.
Christian's got it.
We got maybe here and we got an IO here.
So let's talk about this one.
This one's an interesting one.
So we want to return the maybe
email from the cached user.
We put the user in local storage.
Json stringified this user, and so what we
want to do is get him out of storage and
get his email, because it's George,
and he's a guy.
[LAUGH]
So
we start with compose kinda
figure that out by this point.
So we'll get cash null returns us an IO so
we can't use it yet
we have to map over it.
So we're gonna map over it.
But we wanna get this email right.
So we'll get the email.
And most of you might have done that,
because every other example
is exactly like that.
But there's a problem.
Because, well, first of all,
it's JSON stringified,
so you can't get the email on it,
so I want to compose that.
Right?
So let's compose that and
say getStringEmail as the composition
of get('email') and JSON.parse.
So I'll map(getStringEmail).
But even then it doesn't work and
the reason for
that is that maybe comes back.
For it's an IO of a maybe.
So I have to map the IO,
then map the maybe to get to the email.
That's kind of wild.
Let's look at that and
I get unexpected identify.
>> Speaker 3: Comma,
comma before getCache.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: [SOUND] Thank you.
Okay, but if I just did this, if I just
mapped getStringEmail, getStringEmail's
gonna get a maybe given to it, because
that's what's inside the IO is a maybe.
And we don't want to meet we want to
JSON parsing it will be like what.
[LAUGH] So we actually have to map map
map over the IO the map over the maybe
we're composing functors we have functors
and functors contacts and contacts.
If I wanted to write that,
I could say this things type
is the composition of maybe and IO.
Go what?
Well, it's actually an IO, maybe.
The maybe of IO.
Put it in an IO, then put it in a maybe.
No, maybe IO, okay.
[LAUGH]
Is an IO and maybe and
I can map over that I have to map map
because I have to get into the IO.
Then get into the maybe.
IO takes care of the first
map it say okay,
I'll run you maybe says okay
I'll run you if you're there.
So we've composed behaviors
lust like I want you guys to
think about this for a second.
The first part of this class was about
composing little bits of functions and
data to make and app up.
Now we're composing full
on null checks and input,
like pure IO, and error handling.
We're about to compose more of these
behaviors, but I hope you can see that.
We're actually composing things that
don't feel like they could
possibly compose like a.
You know like a null check like
if you know like well how does
that compose of anything.
Boom.
It does, so lazy computations,
null checks, error handling, etc.
Jessie says I don't have to map map.
Or is he talking to somebody else?
>> Speaker 2: He's talking
to Luke saying, when I have to map map,
or map map map, I'm going to question
the usefulness of what this is.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah.
And I'll talk about.
You can solve there's monad
transformers and you can use lenses.
There's all sorts of
different ways to do that.
You're not going to be stuck
with map all the time.
But what I'm saying is and
in fact, it doesn't matter.
The point is that you're
composing behaviors.
>> Speaker 4: Is that what flat map
would be?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Almost.
>> Speaker 4: Almost.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Flat map.
Works exactly that way if they're
the same type, so same functor.
And we'll talk about that next,
but first we have to learn.
[LAUGH] We have to learn two
more functors and will go quick.
I hope this example wasn't too quick.
But for the most part it's just
compose this function a map over it.
Compose this function a map
over it etc and so on.
The only difference is IO
has a special thing run it
and this one has an IO with a maybe in it
which is the same junk composes function
and that map over it, [LAUGH] You see.
Anyway